# Structural bioinformatics studies of serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine transporters and their AlphaFold2 predicted water-soluble QTY variants and uncovering the natural mutations of L->Q, I->T, F->Y and Q->L, T->I and Y->F

Monoamine transporters including transporters for serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine play key roles in monoaminergic synaptic signaling, involving in the molecular etiology of a wide range of neurological and physiological disorders. Despite being crucial drug targets, the study of transmembrane proteins remains challenging due to their localization within the cell membrane. To address this, we present the structural bioinformatics studies of 7 monoamine transporters and their water-soluble variants designed using the QTY code, by systematically replacing the hydrophobic amino acids leucine (L), valine (V), isoleucine (I) and phenylalanine (F) with hydrophilic amino acids (glutamine (Q), threonine (T) and tyrosine (Y). The resulting QTY variants, despite significant protein transmembrane sequence differences (44.27% - 51.85%), showed similar isoelectric points (pI) and molecular weights. While their hydrophobic surfaces significantly reduced, this change did not cost a structural alteration. Quantitatively, Alphafold2 predicted QTY variant structures displayed remarkable similarity with RMSD 0.492Å-1.619Å. Accompanied by similarities of QTY-code pairs, our study unrevealed multiple QTY and reverse QTY variations in genomic databases. We analyzed their phenotypical and topological characteristics. By extending evolutionary game theory to the molecular foundations of biology, we provided insights into the evolutionary dynamics of chemically distinct alpha-helices, their usage in different chemotherapeutic applications, and open possibilities of diagnostic medicine. Our study rationalizes that QTY variants of monoamine transporters may not only become distinct tools for medical, structural, and evolutionary research, but these transporters may also emerge as contemporary therapeutic targets, providing a new approach to treatment for several conditions.